One of the main challenge in the course of future energy grid is the
lack of flexibility to integrate high penetrations of volatile
renewable energy sources in the power grids. The electricity grid
model is transforming from a hierarchic centralized architecture
towards a decentralized one. One of the questions is how a temporary
energy surplus at one time can be managed either for the grid at 
low-generation times (e.g. storage) or for utilization more
efficiently in time- and location-effective solutions (e.g. local
consumption, local transformation). Hybrid energy networks are seen as
one of the opportunities to provide solutions for managing this
imbalance \cite{}. 

A hybrid energy network is an energy system operated across different 
domains whereby energy will be transformed between the different
grids, in which it can be consumed, stored, transported with a grid in 
its specific form or eventually further transformed into another
energy form between different grids, at different times and/or
locations. The advantages of such an approach are the increase in
reliability, flexibility and the synergy effect \cite{}. 

The development of smart grids through all energy grids independently
have been progressed and supported with extensive research through
many years now. One prominent next step in the energy network
evolution path will be the connection and integration of different
energy grids (multiple carrier grids) â€“ realizing Hybrid Energy
Networks efficiently operated through coupling points (e.g. CHP and
power to gas plants) and managed cooperatively. The energy operators
can take advantage of the characteristics of each energy carrier and
exploit, for example, the possibility of transmitting energy as
electricity and storing energy as gas and as warm water in
accumulators. 

Investigation of this hybrid evolution path is still in its
infancy. There has been some investigation of individual components,
or possible control strategies, but they still lack the full
investigation of checking the impact of hybridization in real-world
environment. We believe that such a thorough investigation, which
includes actual cities and energy grids, will show and open varying
and exciting new possibilities for future energy grids.  

In this paper, we introduces an investigation platform that can
investigate the impact of hybrid-grids and their co-operative control
strategies The proposed process has two major characteristics:
a) Real cities: the investigation starts from two European cities to
identify general setups for Hybrid energy grids. b) Holistic approach:
for each identified hybrid scenario, the process takes dual
investigation via co-simulation and economical-model projection.  

(hmm) The target of the holistic investigation is to understand the
range of flexibility given through the coupling of energy grids to 
understand to which level and which quality of ICT, sensor/monitoring
and automatic control technologies embedded into holistic methods for 
distributed system intelligence have to be realized. 

We believe that the investigation platform enables us to investigate
not only the technical impacts, but also social-/economical aspects to 
identify future evolutionary path for energy grids. 
